So how can we ensure that all our beautiful images are also served to the client, that they are downloaded?
We got multiple options for serving files and I will walk you through all of them. Now
option number one which you would typically use for a scenario like this where you have files that are
publicly available to everyone,
like our product images is that we simply serve our images folder in a static way.
What does this mean?
This means you go to app.js and there we already are statically serving a folder, we are serving the public
folder with the express static middleware.
Now we can serve more than one folder statically and remember, statically serving a folder simply means
that requests to files in that folder will be handled automatically and the files will be returned,
so all the heavy lifting is done behind the scenes by express then. I can duplicate this middleware and
now also serve the images folder, just like this
and with this little change if I save that and the server therefore restarts, if we reload this page,
we still fail.
Well if we inspect that failing request, we see that it tried to get the image from admin/images,
the reason for that is that I'm on the admin route here,
admin products to be precise,
so it's only replacing the last part of my path with that image
url and the solution for that is pretty straightforward.
In our view products.ejs where I do show my image, we simply need to add a slash at the beginning
which will turn this into an absolute path,
so it will not append it to the current path but rather create a new path with only our domain and then
the path which gets rendered here and I do this in products
and of course also on my shop pages,
so on index.ejs,
so basically everywhere where I do render an image, I add a slash at the beginning.
The alternative would be to store that path in a database with a slash at the beginning of course, might
have been easier
but I want to show you both ways
so here I'll add it in my views, also here in the product list.ejs file,
like this and also in the product detail file of course,
there we also have an image.
If we change all of that and I now reload this page, I still fail and now the reason for that is something
different.
The reason for that is that the path now is correct but my images here in the images folder are served
incorrectly. In app.js where I set up this static middleware,
keep in mind what I taught you earlier in this course, we basically point to a folder there like public and
images and we then tell express serve the files from inside that folder as if they were on the root
folder.
So we would see that image if we go there and we see the path under which I try to find that,
if we open that in a new tab, we can't find it of course but we will see it if I remove images there
and the reason for that is that express assumes that the files in the images folder are served as if
they were in the root folder,
so slash nothing.
Of course we want to keep them in the images folder and keep the path like this
and for this, we can simply adjust our middleware here and say if we have a request that goes to
/images, that starts with /images, then serve these files statically and now /images is the folder
we assume for this static serving
and now with that if we save that and we reload, we see our image here.
So now we got that working and now we got a static way of serving our files and that is a great way
of serving them.
Now I want to do something different though,
I want to add this to the cart, order it so that I have an order and I want to download an invoice
for that order and that will now work differently because invoices will not be public files that everyone
should be able to access,
I want to be able to access my invoice
but no one else should be.
So let's focus on this in the next lectures.